Python 3.X’s Unicode string model for real-world programming. In short:
    • All binary mode transfers should open local output and input files in binary mode
    (modes wb and rb).
    • Text-mode downloads should open local output files in text mode with explicit
    encoding names (mode w, with an encoding argument that defaults to latin1 within
    ftplib itself).
    • Text-mode uploads should open local input files in binary mode (mode rb).

Fetching
    The poplib module returns fetched email text in bytes string form. Command text
    sent to the server is encoded per UTF8 internally, but replies are returned as raw
    binary bytes and not decoded into str text.

Sending
    The smtplib module accepts email content to send as str strings. Internally, message
    text passed in str form is encoded to binary bytes for transmission using the
    ascii encoding scheme. Passing an already encoded bytes string to the send call
    may allow more explicit control.

Composing
    The email package produces Unicode str strings containing plain text when generating
    full email text for sending with smtplib and accepts optional encoding
    specifications for messages and their parts, which it applies according to email
    standard rules. Message headers may also be encoded per email, MIME, and Unicode
    conventions.

Parsing
    The email package in 3.1 currently requires raw email byte strings of the type
    fetched with poplib to be decoded into Unicode str strings as appropriate before
    it can be passed in to be parsed into a message object. This pre-parse decoding
    might be done by a default, user preference, mail headers inspection, or intelligent
    guess. Because this requirement raises difficult issues for package clients, it may be
    dropped in a future version of email and Python.

Navigating
    The email package returns most message components as str strings, though parts
    content decoded by Base64 and other email encoding schemes may be returned as
    bytes strings, parts fetched without such decoding may be str or bytes, and some
    str string parts are internally encoded to bytes with scheme raw-unicode-escape
    before processing. Message headers may be decoded by the package on request as
    well.
